# Book Management API

## Description

This is a Book Management API built with the NestJS framework. The API provides endpoints to manage a book inventory, allowing users to create, retrieve, update, and delete books. The project integrates with MongoDB as the database and provides detailed API documentation using Swagger.

## Project Setup

### Prerequisites

Node.js (v14 or higher)
MongoDB (either local or a cloud instance like MongoDB Atlas)

### Installation

First, clone the repository and navigate into the project folder:

$ git clone https://github.com/your-repository/book-management-api.git
$ cd book-management-api

Install the project dependencies:

$ npm install

### Environment Setup

Create a .env file in the root directory and add the following MongoDB connection strings:

# Local MongoDB connection string

MONGO_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/book-management

# MongoDB Atlas connection string

MONGO_URI=mongodb+srv://axixkhanii46:book-management%40123@cluster0.eo5eb.mongodb.net/book-management?retryWrites=true&w=majority&appName=Cluster0

### Compile and Run the Project

To start the project, you can use the following commands depending on the environment:

# development

$ npm run start

# watch mode (auto-reload during development)

$ npm run start:dev

# production mode

$ npm run start:prod

Once the application is running, you can access it at http://localhost:3000.

### Swagger Documentation

The API documentation is automatically generated by Swagger. After starting the application, you can access the Swagger UI at:

http://localhost:3000/api-docs

This interface allows you to explore, test, and interact with the available API endpoints.

## Available API Endpoints

GET /books: Retrieve all books.
GET /books/
: Retrieve a specific book by its ID.
POST /books: Add a new book (requires title, author, and isbn).
PUT /books/
: Update a book by ID.
DELETE /books/
: Delete a book by ID.
All endpoints are fully documented and can be tested directly through the Swagger UI.

## Run Tests

You can run tests for the application with the following commands:

# unit tests

$ npm run test

# end-to-end (e2e) tests

$ npm run test:e2e

# test coverage report

$ npm run test:cov
API Error Handling
All API errors are returned in a standardized JSON format like below:

{
"statusCode": 404,
"message": "Book not found",
"error": "Not Found"
}

## Common Error Codes

400: Bad Request (e.g., invalid input data)
404: Not Found (e.g., book does not exist)
409: Conflict (e.g., duplicate book entries)
